Add 2023-05-17 agenda and minutes (#526)
solid/specification: meetings/2023-05-17.md

### Scribes
* Virginia

### Introductions
* JW: Currently working for Inrupt with main focus on data interoperability. Been in Solid space for about 1.5 years. I will be working with the [EWADA team](https://ewada.ox.ac.uk/) at Oxford in a few months. Got into this through semantic reasoning and that's been my main thing for a while. 

---

## Topics

## Shapes repo
* SC: Would you be interested in moving it forward in these meetings?
* JW: Yes. I am working on templates.
* SC: Would that be according to specs?
* JW: No, it would be putting commonly used shapes in applications into imec / Inrupt repository. 

> * eP: There are shapes that are attached to a specification, we don't have specs attached to contacts, etc. aside from webid-profile. In the long run we need shapes that are domain specific (calender contacts, etc.), but these are not core solid protocol shapes. We should keep that distinct. We should not have business-specific shapes but only those used by specs. WebID-Profile, interop, maybe notifications, etc. there are already shapes that are defined. Business-specific shapes are needed but only backed by some implementations so we need a different process for those that are not accompanied by a Solid spec. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* eP: There are shapes that are attached to a specification, we don't have specs attached to contacts, etc. aside from webid-profile. In the long run we need shapes that are domain specific (calender contacts, etc.), but these are not core solid protocol shapes. We should keep that distinct. We should not have business-specific shapes but only those used by specs. WebID-Profile, interop, maybe notifications, etc. There are shapes that are already defined. Business-specific shapes are needed but only backed by some implementations, so we need a different process for those that are not accompanied by a Solid spec. 
```

> * JW: I agree that Solid shapes should be based on spec stuff. The goal of ??? is to be tied to npm to people can contribute/discover similar shapes to the ones in their app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JW: I agree that Solid shapes should be based on spec stuff. The goal of ??? is to be tied to `npm` to people can contribute/discover shapes similar to the ones in their app.
```

* eP: Jackson is doing some work with ShEx shapes + TS. https://github.com/o-development/ldo
* JW: Yeah, I have seen it. 

## Talks and Presentations
URL: https://2023.mydata.org/

> * SC: I was asked to talk about Solid / Solid Protocol / CG's work items. Will represent myself as chair and speak on behalf of the CG. Unless there are objections?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: I was asked to talk about Solid, Solid Protocol, and CG's work items. Will represent myself as chair and speak on behalf of the CG. Unless there are objections?
```

* SC: No objections.

### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback or interest to implement. Links to products/projects and demos welcome.

> * eP: I am working on implementing support for non-RDF sources. Some nuances working with non-RDF data. Looking into storing preferred filename in the description resource. If someone is interested in feedback, I'd be open to sharing this next week / on the chat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* eP: I am working on implementing support for non-RDF sources. Some nuances working with non-RDF data. Looking into storing preferred filename in the description resource. If someone is interested in feedback, I'd be open to sharing this next week and/or on the chat.
```

* SC: Resolves https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/508
* SC: Recommends "Use consistent spelling throughout the document." -- essentially it is Editors' responsibility. Rationale in https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/508#issuecomment-1461883028
* SC: Any objections to merge?

> * TT: General guidance is good. The challenge is knowing what any doc is using. If you're reading something named in British spelling, you need to search documents on that thing and if they are using US spelling, you cannot find them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* TT: General guidance is good. The challenge is knowing what any doc is using. If you're reading about something named with British spelling, and you search for other documents on that thing but they are using US spelling, you cannot find them.
```

> * SC: For things that are terms that are defined,t hose will be whatever the initial definition is. 
> * TT: let's imagine there's a function "behaviour". You want to find all instances for that function but you have "behaviour" and "behavior". That's why the document is easy for the editor but maybe not the project. 
> * SC: So that is more about findability/searchability. If this issue would have been that significant it would have been a requirements. 
> * TT: The balance is to consider all the things and come up with the best suggestion. Manual of Style are "should". 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: For terms that are defined, those will be whatever the initial definition is. 
* TT: Let's imagine there's a function "behaviour". You want to find all instances of that function, but you have a mix of "behaviour" and "behavior". That's one way per-document consistency is easy for the editor but maybe not the project. 
* SC: So that is more about findability/searchability. If this issue would have been that significant, it would have been a requirements. 
* TT: The balance is to consider all the things and come up with the best suggestion. Manuals of Style are basically RFC "SHOULD". 
```

* SC: There are a lot of guidelines that are not strictly following the MoS. People have different spelling and things configure for that spelling. If we put one of these and force everyone to switch, that's maybe not the right path.
* eP: I don't think there's a need to make a political/ideological statement. It could be useful for specs/readme to express who is responsible for spelling/proof-reading, and this person should have some flexibility and freedom of choice. I think it should be a native speaker thought it doesn't have to be. 

> * SC: That falls into the editor role. We can consider using en-US or en-GB as being chosen by the group and stick to it. 
> * TT: A large piece of the flexibility is lower the barriers to entry. If someone wants to write documents the flavor of English shouldn't be the barrier. I can read UK English but I might have hiccups. Same goes the other way around. It makes work more difficult for writers/editors, but easier for readers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: That falls into the editor role. We can consider using `en-US` or `en-GB` as being chosen by the group and stick to it. 
* TT: A large piece of the flexibility is lower the barriers to entry. If someone wants to write documents, their flavor of English shouldn't be the barrier. I can read UK English but I might have hiccups. Same goes the other way around. Per-project (like Solid) or per-organization (like W3C) consistency makes work more difficult for writers/editors, but easier for readers. 
```

* SC: Add requirement for server to include `Content-Type` in messages with payload in Solid Protocol.
* SC: 3 approved reviews and other general approvals - thumbs ups.
* SC: Preview at http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/dd639ef5be43f02a6aee231f8d6185b80e2bd487/ED/protocol.html#server-content-type-payload (may need to re-trigger jump to anchor from addressbar to go to the requirement)
* SC: Any feedback or objections/clarifications? 

> * eP: I already provided my feedback to clarify that it is mostly the interpretation of HEAD in a message that contains a payload body. Switching to the new RFC would be a separate step where the payload body is referred to as content. In a message with payload body in the future could be renamed to content but still work. 
> * SC: The PR refers to a ??? that contains a payload body.
> * eP: Once we move to the new RFC the payload body moves to content. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* eP: I already provided my feedback to clarify that it is mostly the interpretation of `HEAD` in a message that contains a payload body. Switching to the new RFC would be a separate step where the `payload body` is referred to as `content`. In a message with `payload body` in the future could be renamed to `content` but still work. 
* SC: The PR refers to a ??? that contains a payload body.
* eP: Once we move to the new RFC, the `payload body` moves to `content`. 
```

* SC: I was thinking of processing the whole spec where there's a reference to RFC-??? - not just about payload but other terms too. Once we replace we need to adjust grammar/terms used in the new spec, which is why I didn't want to jump into that now. We have an issue for that as separate step. As for the HEAD, it is identical to GET with the exception it does not have a payload. GET needs to have a content type, when you do HEAD you will get the same header. Not in the same category because HEAD is not ??? a message. 
* eP: Does the current wording make it clear that it also applies to HEAD? 
* SC: This requirement does not cover HEAD because it doesn't have a payload body, but because it covers GET and HEAD is equivalent to GET with headers ???. It might not apply to OPTIONS. 
* TT: I'm not sure content type is inapplicable to HEAD.
* SC: The requirement. 
* TT: Is there any guidance for messages that do not include. apyaload body?
* SC: Yes that's the RFC which says HEAD is exactly same a GET but without a payload. 
* eP: I expect HEAD to return content type.
* TT: I expect the same.

> * JZ: I agree that we should specifically mention HEAD as returning content type. If not there is a gap.
> * SC: There are lot of things in RFC-??? that we don't duplicate. We assume if you dive into Solid protocol you know the expectations. Solid Protocol only adds new information that say things with a payload must have content type. 
> * JZ: Is there a statement that HEAD must have a content type?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JZ: I agree that we should specifically mention `HEAD` as returning content type. If not there is a gap.
* SC: There are lot of things in RFC-??? that we don't duplicate. We assume if you dive into Solid protocol, you know the expectations. Solid Protocol only adds new information that says things with a payload MUST have content type. 
* JZ: Is there a statement that `HEAD` MUST have a content type?
```

* SC: No.
* JZ: I would like to see one.

> * SC: Thre will be. RFC says HEAD is same as GET without the payload. When we add this new requirement it ensures we get a content type in the HEAD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: There will be. RFC says `HEAD` is same as `GET` without the payload. When we add this new requirement, it ensures we get a content type in the `HEAD`.
```

* JZ: For people that have read both.
* SC: It is a requirement for Solid protocol.
* TT: No guarantee that it will be observed. Why do we need to say that any response with payload must have a content type? Is that not required by RFC? 

> * SC: No. It's a SHOULD. This makes it a MUST.
> * TT: why is it not a MUST?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: No. It's a SHOULD. This makes it a MUST.
* TT: Why is it not a MUST in the RFC? That may inform whether Solid spec ought to use SHOULD or MUST.
```

>* PA: Yes, I will review this PR and try to get feedback from other W3C people about how to address this. I like the idea to list them as other "adopted" drafts; however, this might indicate a stronger commitment.

* SC: PR open for one month. We discussed and factored in changed. The PR is still a significant improvement. I propose we merge now prior to other reviews from W3C. PA / W3C Team can follow-up when new information is available.
* TT: Okay to merge from my side.
* eP: I think we can merge and I can create an issue to capture what's not fully addressed. 
* SC: I don't think we have to create an issue. If there's a problem PA can create an issue. Are you okay to leave it to PA to come back to it? 

> * eP: I approved it. If the PR is closed the discussion is archived. I'll create an issue to make sure we have a good strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: PR open for one month. We discussed and factored in changes. The PR is still a significant improvement. I propose we merge now prior to other reviews from W3C. PA and/or W3C Team can follow-up when new information is available.
* TT: Okay to merge from my side.
* eP: I think we can merge, and I can create an issue to capture what's not fully addressed. 
* SC: I don't think we have to create an issue. If there's a problem, PA can create an issue. Are you okay to leave it to PA to come back to it? 
* eP: I approved it. If the PR is closed, the discussion is archived. I'll create an issue to make sure we have a good strategy.
```
